Then there's Victoria, Felicity, Hinge and Alan Morrissey. Yes, so we can start with
Meera. So she's been on the marriage committee for so long and she has so many experiences
with Shrimati ji that she can tell us a lot about. Can you hear me? Yeah. Can you hear
me well? Yes. Okay. First of all, thank you very much for being again, in this beautiful
group to share with you all our experiences. And first of all, I would like to have a request
because IMC is collecting stories and happenings about marriages, how it was in earlier times,
which Shrimati ji and everyone maybe could send me their stories because we are going to have
a booklet for the 100 years of anniversary of Shrimati ji. So this is our plan. So we need all
your beautiful stories, which we can use, of course, not those which is not possible to use.
So that would be my request. And maybe I will send an email address from IMC for these collections,
if that would be possible. That would be great. Also, you are welcome.
I'm waiting. We are very happy to share. We had already a great session
recently about marriage testimonies. There was a wonderful evening a few months ago. So for my,
what I can say today, I was asked about my experiences with Shrimati ji by preparing
for the marriages. And I tried to write together because it was really a very special moment.
And it was in late summer in 2000. And I was in the castle and worked there as usual, but it was
my duty. So many things. I lived that time in in Chantrasi. And it happened a few days before
I just went out of the kitchen and suddenly Yogi Mahajan arrived. And he was in charge for
marriages in India and also in Kavella for a few years. And he just asked me for a cup of tea.
So then I went, prepared for him the tea, and then we were sitting there. And then he was talking
about the work, what has to be done for the upcoming marriages. And then he asked me to
help him. And I didn't know much what to do because the preparation were not like today.
So there were some applications and mostly ladies from the ashram in the castle prepared everything.
So I don't remember that we have list registrations like today. And also not so many,
maybe 50, maximum 60 applications were there compared to the six, seven hundreds.
And that was not that big work that time. And then he asked me to help with the work.
And of course, it was an honour to me. And also a challenge because I had to work
with the mother chief in that days. And yeah, there were also some folders with applications.
And we were sitting in a room in an opera office in the castle. And he asked me just to give him a
boy or an application from a boy or a girl age wise. And I just remember I just went to the
folders and pick up, picked out the girl and then other one, a boy. And then I gave it to him.
And it was very interesting to me to see how the vibration work went on. And he just went
into meditation with both of forms. And then sometimes he asked, okay, for another one.
And then he went to Shri Mataji. She was just sitting in a room nearby.
And but it was everything very, very quiet, very, very deep, very, it was a huge vibration work.
But no one else were there. I don't remember only Shri Mataji, Yogi Mahajan and me.
And so then he went to Shri Mataji with the applications. Shri Mataji took both of them.
And she just observed the photos mostly. She was just watching the yogis. She was not much
interested what they are doing, what the height is. And then sometimes she said, okay, give me
another girl. So I was running back, took another girl application, Gavi to Shri Mataji.
And then she just said, okay, it's a match. Or she said, it's done. Or she said,
give me another boy or give me another girl. So like, so the work went on and on three days long.
And I just remember I was, I was not on earth, I think it was so much work, but
I didn't feel tired somehow. Three days I didn't, didn't sleep. And I don't remember if I eat
something in Shri Mataji as well. She was just sitting there and worked very, very hard.
And yeah, so that was the beginning of the work. And sometimes later on I helped in Genoa also
with the applications. And then the main work started in 2011 when the IMC was founded by the
by the CC actually. Mostly Gregor was very, very much interested that we have this group
all together. And yeah, so these days it's a little bit different because we have so many
applications from all over the world. We are around 16 Octave members.
And this year even, even we managed online to take vibrations six days long.
Also for an early morning till in the night. And what is nice is this time we have
a much higher agreement of the matches. So this is also very good, even in India. So we have
so we have more than 70% who were agreed with the matches. And of course we had a tremendous
weekend. Krishna Puja with the marriages last week. So what to say more?
If someone has a question. Yes, it was such a joyful experience watching
online. Continue with this tradition of broadcasting. This is so wonderful. And we all
felt so one, the sense of oneness we could feel. It was amazing. It was incredible because we have
many, many, you were shocked this, I mean, born children, I mean, growing up, who got married and
that was very, very special. So to see them also to match them. So this work was also incredible.
We just saw, oh, this boy, oh, this girl and vibration were just shutting and it's working.
It works. So it was actually easy, easy to do work this year. Yeah.
They were so perfect. This matches, they were really perfect.
I know quite a few of the Uvists who I've known since they were babies.
Yeah. It's just so perfect. I just can't really describe how beautiful it was
to see them actually perfect matches. I mean, this year, I guess we had many,
many and what other most beautiful is if you see marriages from previous years and now we have so
many babies, you know, walking or just born and it's incredible. I don't know. We just see babies
in Cabela. So this is the other nice, nice part. So we hope very much we can continue and that
these work will be always, always very auspicious for, for the Sangha. And yeah, we are just,
it's a, it's a beautiful team. Also each of them, we are friends, sisters, family, we are sometimes
talking, meditating. Also, if someone has a problem, we share together. It's, it's incredible
deepness between the members also. I mean, after 10 years work also almost all of us
are there since long time and also worked with Shri Mataji, of course, more than me, probably,
of course, Mr. Nagikar and, and others. So it's, I love it. We missed her this year.
She was, she could not come this year. Yeah. She couldn't come, but I mean,
she completely loves the, the, the group, you know, she says it's just amazing.
We love each other very much. I have to say, so this makes more easier to, because we are one. So
if you have ever worked and you, you have a oneness, then that's the most beautiful. So
I would say this group is probably the most beautiful in Sahaj maybe also others,
but this group is, is excellent. And please, please send, send me the, the stories, what you
have, especially from earlier time, we try to, to make him in a chronological way, how the marriage
started and how, how many stories are there just to share and joy. We have some already
and yeah, that would be great. Maybe I will write in the chat, the email address.
If you, thank you, Meera, about the marriage committee, how it came into being very nice.
Very nice. Yes. Thank you. And congratulations to you also. Okay. So next we have,
who will go next Felicity? I think you might be one of the earliest marriages.
Yes, it's interesting you, you were asking Meera. So I just first wanted to say,
because our son got married this weekend at Krishna Puja. And I just, I was trying to say to
Victoria, thank you really so much. We weren't able to be there, any of the family at all,
it was so beautiful to see how loved and taken care of he was. And they all were the, the couples.
And we had such a strong sense of family of Sahaj family through watching the whole marriages
online. And I wanted to thank the marriage committee for all the hard work and everything
that they've done to bring about such a joyful occasion. And I had never seen him. I saw photos.
I've never seen him, not just happy, so joyful was just, and it reminds, so it reminded us,
my husband and I, of when we got married, because when we got married in 1982, we got married in
India and we had no family there, no family. And we were all married. And we were all married.
And we had no family there. Nobody had Sahaj family then. And so it was a similar experience
for him. So when we got married, Oh, I lost you all. Wait a minute. Sorry. Yeah, I keep getting
messages. I was trying to anyway. So we, before so I came into Sahaj Yoga in 79, in 80, there was
one Dawn and Anthony were the first Tony with the first marriage and then Maureen. And then I think
Gresham will remember dates better, but 81 was when she started having more collective
weddings, collective marriages. And we got married in 82 and it was the first collective marriages
in Delhi, in India. And there were 12 couples, but it was a very different situation.
We were on tour. There were about, I think, 84 Yogis on tour, a lot of Australians. And
suddenly we were on the tour with Shrimataji and we were sitting somewhere listening with her.
And she suddenly said, and where's the marriage list? Pull out the marriage list. And on this,
she, no, she said, everybody who's on the marriage list, please stand up. So there were about 27
people on the marriage list. We sent, we just sent in our names, put in our names. They all stood up
mother saw where they were. And we all sat down again. And then she started to proceed to talk
about each person and many of them she'd never physically met before, but each person, she said,
some really good quality about them. And if there was something, some weakness, she also shared
that. So it was very, very open. Everything was upfront. And she was basically introducing
all the people on the marriage list to the collective and to, to them, to everyone else
on the marriage list. And we actually have a recording somewhere somewhere where we recorded
this, this on tape. And then she said, and when everyone had, she'd spoken about everyone, she
said, and now I want you to go away and put down on a piece of paper who you would like to marry.
So we just went, what, what, you know, I was like, no, no, this is not my, you know, I'm waiting for
mother mother to tell me who to marry. You know, so this was really, she said, three people, you
put down three names and then you, you, you bring the pieces of paper, you know? So for me, I went
away and I thought, ah, I can't choose. I know only by that, you know, I'd have different
experiences to this point, knowing that only she could know the right person for me because she
knows everything. Anyway, I, I sort of went through, so I had to sit and think about all the men on the
list because mother said that. And I picked out two or three people that I knew didn't quite feel
right. And the one person, when my attention went to my future husband and I just went, no, we're
totally unsuited. I didn't even think any more about him. It was just like, no, I'd had a couple
of conversations. I thought we're totally opposite. No, that's not going to work. So imagine my shock.
I got a little bit nervous the next day. So everything is, you know, mother's, I guess we
didn't hear anything. And then the next day my husband, Richard tells the story that Warren was
running backwards and forwards from mother's house to the camp and talking to people and talking and
then going backwards and forwards. So like, he would be talking to saying, you know, oh, well,
I really would accept this match that, you know, this match has been been made. And, and I just
suddenly got cold feet and I went to him and I said, oh, I, I don't, I can't do this. You'll have
to take my name off the list. I'm not ready. And he went, oh really mother's found a match for you.
So I went, okay, who is it? And he said, Richard. So I was just like, Richard, you know,
so I, I sort of, I must've gone away and thought about it. And then I came back to him and I said,
is mother happy about the match? And he said, yes, yes, she's very happy about the match.
So then I just said, okay, that's, that's if this is the match, you know, and once I accepted
and surrendered to it, then it was like, she showed me inside myself, why this is a good match,
you know? And, and I could see, I remember, and we were, ah, so we weren't allowed to talk to
each other for more than two minutes each day. So we had the matches, the matches came together
very quickly. Six of them were rematches. Six of them were people who were already married,
had come into Sahaja Yoga married and had asked for a remarriage. And there were only
six other matches that, that came together. And it was 10 days from that point of engagement
to when we actually went to Delhi and had the marriage ceremonies in Delhi.
I can't remember if we each had individual, but I think we did have individual fires.
And, but she said to us, you only can speak two minutes each day. And I'm sure this was just so
that our egos and our superegoes didn't come up and start judging each other. So I remember
standing in the line, the dinner line. So I thought, okay, we can't talk, but we can be
together. So it was very sweet. So I can remember standing with him in the dinner line and you
really have a sense of, of the spirit of the person. And you don't have any complications
from conversations or talking, you just feel the spirit of the person. And I suddenly had
felt mother inside me say, see, you are two halves of the same coin. He is the same coin.
And together you make, you make, you know, the one coin. And then I felt her say inside
at the same time that she said, I felt her say to me, you are very different on the outside,
but inside you share the same values. The deep things are the same. And over the years,
the outside things will all be the same. And I felt her say to me, you are very different on the
outside. And over the years, the outside things will all smooth away and melt away. And gradually
you will become more in the center together and then you will just enjoy. And, and the actually,
and that is what happened. So, so it was, it was very sweet. And I just add one little other thing.
So the saris for the marriages, Sumadachi had ordered somebody to, had, had arranged for someone
and we were all invited down into this, where this table was laid out with wedding saris.
And all the brides were invited to come down and choose a sari. And my friend Pamela was there.
She also got married that year to a Swiss at the time. And she found this amazing sari. It was
completely multicolored, like filled with gold and silver and colors of the rainbow.
And she came to me and she, and all the other saris were fairly subdued, you know, reds and
greens. There were some pinks, typical. And she came and she said to me, Oh, what do you think?
You know, I went, Oh, Pamela, I think this is a bit much, you know, it's a bit loud.
She said, I really like it. I really like it. So she held onto this sari.
And I couldn't choose. And people said to me, Oh, you should take this pink one. So I got it,
picked up a pink one. And then we were standing in a line and Srimadaji was there. And she had
each bride come up to her holding the sari with the sari they had. So my friend Pamela was in
front of me. So she got to Srimadaji and my mother went, no, no, no, not this sari and put it down.
And my ego must have thought, Oh yeah, yeah, right. You know, and she picked out a different
one, a very lovely green one for her. And then it was my turn. And I went up and I,
I felt this pink one was too much associated with left side and stuff. And she said, no, no,
not this one. And she picked up the multicolored one and she gave it to me and she said,
do you like it? And I just kind of went, yes, mother. Yes. I went gulp, of course, you know,
and you're just sort of reprocessing and adjusting, you know, and I went, was, you know,
mother's a wonderful joke, you know, and how she breaks down your conditionings and ideas.
And it was an amazing sari for me because there was nothing from my past or my being that could
identify in any way with this sari. And it was like being given a completely new joyful skin,
you know, just an incredible sari. So it was such, such sweet, you know, those experiences
of being with Shomataji. We were so blessed to see her incredible attention to the detail,
to the smallest things, how she knew us, you know, through and through. She knows all of us,
you know, through and through. And so that, that was part of our experience. And we,
we got married in Delhi. We had a little, we did have the Gauri poocher. I remember
coming out. We didn't have the big sheet like you have now. We were given the garlands as we came
out of the room where we'd been having the pooch with Shomataji. She gave us the garland.
She gave the brides the garland, and we then came out and met our future husband and garlanded them
and started the ceremony. Meanwhile, I shouldn't forget to say the grooms arrived on horses.
As is traditional in India, they found 12, no 11, they only could find 11 horses for 12 grooms. And
my husband should tell that story, but you can see there is a video where you see them arriving
with beautiful crowns. I didn't remember us having crowns before, but this was the first collective
marriages in India. So it was very much, we were enjoying the Indian style of doing things. And
they had the crowns with Shomataji's picture in the first time. And then after the weddings,
we all sat up on a, like on a dais, no on a, like a little kind of stage. And
Shomataji came by and blessed us all and congratulated us and gave us some gifts,
each couple and even some of the Indian collectives gave gifts too. I think I've overdone my time,
but I just, I just add one little thing. So when, before in 79, 80, we were again with Shomataji
in a room in her flat in Victoria gardens. And she'd been talking about everyday sort of more
mundane things, maybe programs. And then suddenly the atmosphere changed and she started to talk to
us about marriage, about how important it was that at that time, the only married couple were Jim and
Hillary and Gavin and Jane who'd come into Sahaj married. So none of the rest of us. And we were all
fairly young in our mid, mid twenties, some early thirties, but mostly that 23 upwards.
And she really stressed the importance that we all had to get married. She actually said,
anybody who doesn't want to get married in Sahaj Yoga can just get out, just get out. That's it.
And then she then said, and the whole, I could feel, I just remember it as being,
it was felt so historic to me. And I remember her sitting, I see her sitting on her chair
framed with a window and the light was coming in and she seemed so large. We were all at her feet
on the ground. And she said, you are the foundation stones I'm building. We're building Sahaj Yoga
upon, but I'm sending you the children and they are the ones that are going to change the world.
And she also talked about the schools, but I never forgot that I am sending you the children
and they are the ones that will change the world. And this weekend at Krishna puja, when we saw
these amazing, so many of them who've grown up in Sahaj Yoga and just so joyful. So many of them
who'd been to the school in ISPS at that same time, she said to us, and I'm, we will, I'm building
you a school and you will send your children there. And these are the children that, that came
through from there. And so it's such a, to, to see, you know, so many things you might, she promised
us in those early years of what would happen, how things would change. And I have to say that,
you know, like two thirds have already come true and to see these generations now getting
getting married. And as you said, having their own children and us being grandparents,
which is amazing. And even those, you know, some of the children have gone out of the collective,
the Sahaj collective, but still you see how shining they are in their lives, however they've
chosen to lead them. And I feel as if wherever they are, whether they're in the Sahaj collective
or they're outside, these are mother's children and they are just shining and leading the life
and, and giving the vibrations that she, she bestowed upon all of them. So anyway.
Yes. Very nice. Thank you, Felicity. Yes, these are indeed very precious stories from the
earliest weddings. Very nice. So now we have two more, Inge and Victoria. Should we start
with Inge and Alan Morrissey and Felicity I hope one day Richard.